# CHANGELOG miniRT

## INFO

```
add stuff that you change or ideas here if you want
```



## MEGA PUSH 

### Makfile

- The makefile is a "bit" messy as I often try some stuff out that I find and usually just comment it out
especially the libft makefile.With the flags at the beginning of the makefile u can enable fsanitize and the debug flags for gdb for maximum debug information.

```
V 			?= 1
DEBUG		?= 0
RT_DEBUG	?= 1
SAN			?= 1
```

- The V flag just silences the output from the libft makefile
- DEBUG to enable ggdb3 or g3 as you like, in case you want to start gdb after compiling, you have to disable the SAN flag - since gdb doesnt work with the address sanitizer - either set it to 0 in the Makefile or like so
```bash
SAN=0 make re
SAN=0 make
```
- the RT_DEBUG flag is used for debug prints - they are in dbg_log.h and trace_log.h they can also be disable via the RT_DEBUG flag, by default its always on its kind of useful if you dont want to comment out print statements all the time, but we will have to remove it later as its not norm conform.
- I found an example of it here -> [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib)
```bash
RT_DEBUG=0 make re
RT_DEBUG=0 make
```

- the SAN flag is always on as a baseline, also program might take a second to run

```bash
# to run a the program 
make test
```

---

### Doxygen Documentation

- When you run
```bash
make docs
```

- A documentation for all the files will be created, you might need to download doxy. The appearance and how it is formatted has to be set in the Doxyfile.
- You can run the command in the libft folder to see an example, I mainly left all the stuff there for testing how the formatting of the documentation looks like when created, later when we submit I will use another version of the repo, so it also looks super messy currently :D
- At the base of the directory there should be a file created called index.html -> you can open that in your browser to see the generated documentation.
- If you are working in in vscode through wsl it wont open - right click and reveal in file explorer should work.

```bash
# to delete everything generated by doxygen
make clean-docs
make aclean deletes everything from both repos
```

### Errors handling
  - I am implementing super strict error handling for file parsing - you can find the error codes and messages in the header file.
  - its not complete yet, but basically it works like strerror(errno) and is also norm compliant

### Info
- i have added a bunch of testfiles
- currently there are no leaks.
- Since you said you need some inspiration for structuring spagetthi code -> I often use Fluent C as refernce, I have added it to the repo.

# Links

- [raylib-math](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib/blob/master/src/raymath.h)
- [raylib-core](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib/blob/master/src/rcore.c)
- [compilerflags](https://nullprogram.com/blog/2023/04/29/)
- [nullprogram](https://nullprogram.com/index/)

